Initial Project Proposal (#1)
BarbzCodez/Spendr: PROPOSAL.md

# COMP 4350 Proposal Team - Spendr

## Project Summary and Vision

Spendr is designed to simplify group expenses by offering a comprehensive platform for users to collaboratively track and manage shared expenses, ensuring transparency, accuracy, and ease of settlements.

## Core Features

1. User Management
2. Group Management
3. Expense Categorization

> 4. Expense Analytics

Reviewer: Are we doing expense categorization or ai parser?

Author: Oops, I forgot to adjust the core features!

Fixed in https://github.com/BarbzCodez/Spendr/pull/1/commits/4a8c59dbf68207357d49670b822f5007f1ebeafe

5. Group Expense Splitting

## User Stories 

### Feature 1. User Management

> - **User Story**: As a potential user, I want to register an account with Spendr to start tracking my expenses.
>   - **Acceptance Criteria**:
>     - Can register with username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **User Story**: As a new user, I want to register an account with Spendr to start tracking my expenses.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can register with using an email, username and password.
    - Can log in with username and email
```

Author: I feel like allowing user creation with emails is going to be harder to implement and test, since we're going to have to use third party services for sending/verifying emails, as well as mocking that service when testing.

- **User Story**: As a potential user, I want to register an account with Spendr to begin tracking my group expenses.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can register with email and password.
    - Receive a confirmation email upon successful registration.

- **User Story**: As a registered user, I want to log in to my Spendr account to access my groups and expenses.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can securely log in using email and password.
    - Can log out of the account.

> 

Reviewer: Dont we a user store for adding individual expenses

Author: Yeah definitely, I added this under the second feature, though.

https://github.com/BarbzCodez/Spendr/pull/1/files/e3b999666c48e848a4b3c718aba380784e49e645#diff-3d0dee48edcfe8d2075980fdc47b991d02a098c79e8c20af3b56d181f2354d2cR40-R43

- **User Story**: As a Spendr user, I want to view and manage my expense history.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can view a list of all recorded expenses.
    - Can edit or delete an existing expense.

### Feature 3. Budget Management

- **User Story**: As a Spendr user, I want to set a monthly or weekly budget to control my spending.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can define a monthly or weekly budget amount.
    - The budget is displayed prominently in the application.

- **User Story**: I want to be notified when I am close to reaching or have exceeded my budget.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Receive a notification when my expenses are nearing the set budget limit.
    - Get alerted if I exceed the budget.

### Feature 4. Expense Analytics

- **User Story**: As a Spendr user, I want visual insights on my spending habits to make informed decisions.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can view graphical representations (like bar and pie charts) of my spending by category or time.
    - Can see a breakdown of expenses for specific periods (weekly, monthly, yearly).

### Feature 5. Group Expense Splitting

> - **User Story**: When I have shared expenses, I want to split them among friends or roommates easily.
>   - **Acceptance Criteria**:
>     - Can add usernames when inputting an expense.
>     - The application calculates and displays the share each individual owes.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **User Story**: When I have shared expenses, I want to split them among friends or roommates easily.
  - **Acceptance Criteria**:
    - Can add usernames when inputting an expense.
    - Can split an expense equally or by percentages
    - The application calculates and displays the share each individual owes.
    - The user that made the expense or the individual that owe, can mark as paid.

```

# COMP 4350 Proposal Team - Spendr

> 

Author: ty!
